Welcome back in in this lesson where you look at multi dimensional arrays so they're also known as nested
arrays but multi-dimensional does sound a whole lot better.
So basically what a multi dimensional array does is essentially arouse you to contain multiple values
within an array and have multiple arrays within that tree as well.
So let's set up our array.
And for this one let's start with something familiar where we set up our typical array and then we're
going to actually turn this one into a multi dimensional array.
So I've got our basic array here all ready to go.
I go back out here refreshed and we can see our array.
So let's turn it into a multi dimensional array and all we have to do is to wrap around that.
So now when I refresh it and if I do array I see the returned response is actually an array with an
array.
So if I wanted to get access to the contents of the first array or the first item in the array.
So just as if I was returning back any one of these values in just a single dimensional array we would
use the index value.
So this one has an index to retrieve back that first array and then it retrieves that back.
So in order to get cat dog or fish I need to specify the next index value that we want to look for.
So let's pull back fish and we can see that this way we can return the value of fish.
So essentially all this is is just multiple arrays one inside of the other.
So nested within each other.
So maybe this one can be a numeric one just having a bunch of numbers and we can go back.
It will refresh the page.
We'll see what it looks like.
Now within the console and we can see that we're turning back all the contents of array and we see that
we've got two arrays within that array and we can see that each one of them pretty much functions as
an array on its own.
And basically you can type in other different data types as well and that doesn't actually affect anything
that's happening within the multi dimensional array.
So we have the ability to have these multi dimensional pieces to the array and we can still call back
a part of the array.
So if we want to get back 50 We know that the index is three and we can call those back but if we want
to get deeper into those existing arrays that we have to specify additional index values in order to
be able to pull back those values.
So if we want to pull back dog we need to specify first the index in the main array where it's located
which is at index 0 and then next we need to look at that array that's contained within there.
And this one is has three items in there and we can pull back the value of dog.
So we press our our bracket zero bracket one so we can retrieve back the value of dog.
And initially it does take some more time to start working and to be able to visualize these multi dimensional
arrays.
But once you do start working with them there's quite a lot of power behind there because you have the
ability to store multiple levels of information all contained within the array and all contained within
that one variable.
And this is the only one that we need to remember in order to access all this wonderful information.
So what I want you to do now as an exercise is to create your own multi dimensional array and set it
up as an array and then add in a list of people so maybe create a collection of friends list out all
of your friends and then have another value within that array corresponding to when you first met them.
So the order that we're the maybe the last time you saw them.
So the last one that you saw might be a one and then two three and so on.
So try that out and I'll show you how to do that solution.
So welcome back.
And in this lesson I'm going to show you how to create that challenge.
So initially it was said to create an array that has a bunch of friends in it.
So let's do that.
And then within that arrays so this is a multi dimensional array so we're just going to do those two
square brackets right off the bat.
So let's give put some names in there.
So do some typical names
and so we've got three names in there and then we want the next array to correspond with when we first
met them.
So if we met Larry first and John Mike second and then John third.
So let's do it within that order.
So we just got some numbers that are corresponding there.
And now if we watch retrieve back information for Mike we can set a variable of Q Or maybe we can do
a prompt here and it's.
And the question will be which friend.
So we just get a numeric value.
So Mike John and Larry we'll get a response back there and we'll console log the value of the response
from the prompt so we can return back the contents of our friends array.
And both of these are going to be the same value.
So we're going to look for a value of Q and this one also is going to be the Q.
So it's open up our browser and try this out.
So which friend do we want to look at.
And we're going to find out the order that we're able to able to see them as well.
It actually before I finish this up there is an error here because we need to specify that this is the
first array and then that second array is action so the first one is where we're achieving by our friends
and then next we're going to say when you met them order
and this time we need to specify the secondary because we've got the first array the second array.
So we do need to specify and then the queue is just specifying what index we want in that multidimensional
array and I just saw an error there so let's add that comma in there because we do need to comma separate
out those arrays.
So let's try this.
So which friend do we want to take a look at.
We'll look at friend number one and John when you met them.
Order number three so we can try that again.
And this might actually be better if they were actually dates or years or something like that.
So let's do 1980
1990 and let's do this one.
Two thousand and 16.
So when you met them do you hear when you might get rid of that order.
And we can also start with you Matt.
You met
John
Dean.
So do it like that.
So this is going to give us some more details about content within our race.
Let's go back out and refresh it.
So let's see which friend who want to take a look at.
So you met Mike in 1980.
You met John in 1990 and you met Larry in 2016.
So this is how you can work and use multi-dimensional arrays to retrieve and hold multiple values all
contained within one variable.
So the next lesson I'm going to quickly show you how you can loop through the values of the array so
that we don't have to actually go and do one by one and show you how to do that.
And there's a really simple trick to looping through the values of an array.
So that's coming up in the next lesson.